---
title: "documentation"
bg: purple
color: white
fa-icon: book
---

## API Documentation
* [`configure`](#configure)
* [`generateTempUserModel`](#generateTempUserModel)
* [`createTempUser`](#createTempUser)
* [`sendVerificationEmail`](#sendVerificationEmail)
* [`confirmTempUser`](#confirmTempUser)
* [`sendConfirmationEmail`](#Options)
* [`resendVerificationEmail`](#resendVerificationEmail)
* [`Options`](#Options)

<a name="configure"></a>
### `configure(optionsToConfigure, callback(err, options))`
Changes the default configuration by passing an object of options to configure (`optionsToConfigure`); see the section below for a list of all options. `options` will be the result of the configuration, with the default values specified below if they were not given. If there are no errors, `err` is `null`.

<a name="generateTempUserModel"></a>
### `generateTempUserModel(UserModel, callback(err, tempUserModel))`
Generates a Mongoose Model for the temporary user based off of `UserModel`, the persistent user model. The temporary model is essentially a duplicate of the persistent model except that it has the field `{GENERATED_VERIFYING_URL: String}` for the randomly generated URL by default (the field name can be changed in the options). If the persistent model has the field `createdAt`, then an expiration time (`expires`) is added to it with a default value of 24 hours; otherwise, the field is created as such:

```javascript
{
    ...
    createdAt: {
        type: Date,
        expires: 86400,
        default: Date.now
    }
    ...
}
```

`tempUserModel` is the Mongoose model that is created for the temporary user. If there are no errors, `err` is `null`.

Note that `createdAt` will not be transferred to persistent storage (yet?).

<a name="createTempUser"></a>
### `createTempUser(user, callback(err, newTempUser))`
Attempts to create an instance of a temporary user model based off of an instance of a persistent user, `user`, and add it to the temporary collection. `newTempUser` is the temporary user instance if the user doesn't exist in the temporary collection, or `null` otherwise. If there are no errors, `err` is `null`.

If a temporary user model hasn't yet been defined (generated or otherwise), `err` will NOT be `null`.

<a name="sendVerificationEmail"></a>
### `sendVerificationEmail(email, url, callback(err, info))`
Sends a verification email to to the email provided, with a link to the URL to verify the account. If sending the email succeeds, then `err` will be `null` and `info` will be some value. See [Nodemailer's documentation](https://github.com/andris9/Nodemailer#sending-mail) for information.

<a name="confirmTempUser"></a>
### `confirmTempUser(url, callback(err, newPersistentUser))`
Transfers a temporary user (found by `url`) from the temporary collection to the persistent collection and removes the URL assigned with the user. `newPersistentUser` is the persistent user instance if the user has been successfully transferred (i.e. the user accessed URL before expiration) and `null` otherwise; this can be used for redirection and what not. If there are no errors, `err` is `null`.

<a name="sendConfirmationEmail"></a>
### `sendConfirmationEmail(email, callback(err, info))`
Sends a confirmation email to to the email provided. If sending the email succeeds, then `err` will be `null` and `info` will be some value. See [Nodemailer's documentation](https://github.com/andris9/Nodemailer#sending-mail) for information.

<a name="resendVerificationEmail"></a>
### `resendVerificationEmail(email, callback(err, userFound))`
Resends the verification email to a user, given their email. `userFound` is `true` if the user has been found in the temporary collection (i.e. their data hasn't expired yet) and `false` otherwise. If there are no errors, `err` is `null`.

<a name="Options"></a>
## Options
Here are the default options:

```javascript
var options = {
    verificationURL: 'http://example.com/email-verification/${URL}',
    URLLength: 48,

    // mongo-stuff
    persistentUserModel: null,
    tempUserModel: null,
    tempUserCollection: 'temporary_users',
    emailFieldName: 'email',
    passwordFieldName: 'password',
    URLFieldName: 'GENERATED_VERIFYING_URL',
    expirationTime: 86400,

    // emailing options
    transportOptions: {
        service: 'Gmail',
        auth: {
            user: 'user@gmail.com',
            pass: 'password'
        }
    },
    verifyMailOptions: {
        from: 'Do Not Reply <user@gmail.com>',
        subject: 'Confirm your account',
        html: '<p>Please verify your account by clicking <a href="${URL}">this link</a>. If you are unable to do so, copy and ' +
                'paste the following link into your browser:</p><p>${URL}</p>',
        text: 'Please verify your account by clicking the following link, or by copying and pasting it into your browser: ${URL}'
    },
    shouldSendConfirmation: true,
    confirmMailOptions: {
        from: 'Do Not Reply <user@gmail.com>',
        subject: 'Successfully verified!',
        html: '<p>Your account has been successfully verified.</p>',
        text: 'Your account has been successfully verified.'
    },

    hashingFunction: null,
}
```

- **verificationURL**: the URL for the user to click to verify their account. `${URL}` determines where the randomly generated part of the URL goes, and is needed. Required.
- **URLLength**: the length of the randomly-generated string. Must be a positive integer. Required.

- **persistentUserModel**: the Mongoose Model for the persistent user.
- **tempUserModel**: the Mongoose Model for the temporary user. you can generate the model by using `generateTempUserModel` and passing it the persistent User model you have defined, or you can define your own model in a separate file and pass it as an option in `configure` instead.
- **tempUserCollection**: the name of the MongoDB collection for temporary users.
- **emailFieldName**: the field name for the user's email. If the field is nested within another object(s), use dot notation to access it, e.g. `{local: {email: ...}}` would use `'local.email'`. Required.
- **passwordFieldName**: the field name for the user's password. If the field is nested within another object(s), use dot notation to access it (see above). Required.
- **URLFieldName**: the field name for the randomly-generated URL. Required.
- **expirationTime**: the amount of time that the temporary user will be kept in collection, measured in seconds. Must be a positive integer. Required.

- **transportOptions**: the options that will be passed to `nodemailer.createTransport`.
- **verifyMailOptions**: the options that will be passed to `nodemailer.createTransport({...}).sendMail` when sending an email for verification. You must include `${URL}` somewhere in the `html` and/or `text` fields to put the URL in these strings.
- **shouldSendConfirmation**: send an email upon the user verifiying their account to notify them of verification.
- **confirmMailOptions**: the options that will be passed to `nodemailer.createTransport({...}).sendMail` when sending an email to notify the user that their account has been verified. You must include `${URL}` somewhere in the `html` and/or `text` fields to put the URL in these strings.

- **hashingFunction**: the function that hashes passwords. Must take four parameters `password, tempUserData, insertTempUser, callback` and return `insertTempUser(hash, tempUserData, callback)`.